Design history entry: recording training outcomes (#282)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/register-trainee-teachers/2020-11-20-recording-training-outcomes.md

---
title: Recording training outcomes
description: An early attempt at recording training outcomes
date: 2020-11-20
---

When recording a training outcome we need to know if trainees have met the standards to be awarded a qualification. There is also a need to record unsuccessful outcomes.

In the next round of research we hoped to validate our current understanding around collecting this information which included the following assumptions:

* our users are able to specify a date for when the trainee has either met the standards or for when they have not met the standards
* a common workflow for our users is to withdraw some trainees in the same process of recording a ‘standards not met’ outcome
* when a trainee is recorded as not meeting the standards for QTS, some will stay on the programme to try again
* we need to display dates from previous QTS outcomes against a trainee record
* our users understand the options we have provided for reasons why a trainee isn’t being recommended for QTS and the options cover all potential scenarios

## There are multiple outcomes to consider

> Early version of this flow included a button labelled 'Recommend for QTS'. We were concerned that this was too specific and didn't reflect other possible outcomes such as failure or awards other than QTS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Early version of this flow included a button labelled 'Recommend for QTS'. We were concerned that this was too specific and didn’t reflect other possible outcomes such as failure or awards other than QTS.
```
